Lifelong learner | Builder of great software
Otherwise known as "Coding Associates", Hackstars are yet another great resource provided to the Techstars companies while they go through the accelerator program. As a Hackstar, I worked with many companies and teams on various technical projects, including the extraction of business cards from email signatures (natural language processing), image background removal (image processing), and full stack web development with Laravel PHP and Node.js. The rapid, projects-based nature of being a Hackstar has prepared me to work with diverse teams, environments, and tech stacks.
I worked in the Far Horizons Lab to design and engineer a wireless cutdown system for Adler's High Altitude Balloon (HAB) missions. Using Arduino microcontrollers on-board the HAB payloads, the payload is able to dynamically cut itself from the balloon based on altitude, time, or distance from launch. Cutting the payload before the balloon bursts is important in preventing the bursted balloon fragments from tangling the payload's parachute on descent. This project was submitted to IMSAloquium 2014 and presented on April 17, 2014.
In a national cybersecurity competition put on by NYU Polytechnic, my team of three was named Finalist - one of twelve teams - and flown to New York City for the final competition. The focus of the competition was on cyber forensics.
My team of four received the award of "Finalist" during the 2014 HiMCM contest. We used a Java simulation of bank teller lines to optimize teller efficiency.
I developed the back-end API for a prototype of a campus awakening system to help sleep deprived students. Later, I developed a native Android app for students to request their wake up calls. Made for the IMSAthon Hackathon hosted by MonkeyBars at the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy. Won best project out of six teams.
I was a core technical contact for and assisted with the creation of this report which goes over various strategies for assessing Computer Science proficiency in the classroom. The appendix includes examples of powerful Computer Science assessments.
GPA: 4.0. Leader on campus as a Hall Tutor, Writing Center Tutor, and a member of the Student Computing Support team. President and founder of the League of Legends club, one of the first video game clubs on campus.
I volunteered 2 hours a week staffing the Writing Center and being available to assist students with any writing needs.
I volunteered 2 hours a week staffing the Student Computing Support (SCS) helpdesk, in addition to helping out students with technology issues throughout the week if they arose.