Avidly learning about computer science, curriculum development, and current events. Experience in leadership, graphic design, and entrepreneurship.
Awarded Scouting's highest rank, earned by less than 6% of all Scouts annually, after six years of leadership and participation in Boy Scout Troop 493.
Led 10-person team in Eagle Scout community service project to create the Northern Illinois Leadership Conference to empower 70+ middle school students.
Honored as one of fewer than 30 students who qualified for the National Speech and Debate Tournament all four years of high school.
Won the IHSA State Speech Series, competing against 230+ students over three weeks, in Extemporaneous Speaking, an event in which students are given questions about politics, economics, and international affairs and have 45 minutes to prepare a six minute speech using research prepared in advance.
Placed 10th among 250+ other qualifiers at the 2013 Speech and Debate Nationals in United States Extemporaneous Speaking, an event in which students are given questions about topics ranging from congressional politics to the energy market and have 30 minutes to prepare a seven minute speech using research prepared in advance.
Placed 11th among 500+ other qualifiers at the 2013 Speech and Debate Nationals in United States Extemporaneous Impromptu Speaking, an event in which students are given topics and have two minutes to compose a five minute speech without any other materials.
Qualified in the top 10 highest-scoring competitors in the three hour-long Chicago preliminary round solving programming challenges in Java.
Member of selective Camras Scholars program, which accepts less than 1% of IIT students, designing innovative STEM education initiatives for clients in the Chicagoland area.
Selected, one of fewer than 250 students per year, for three-year, rigorous, residential, STEM education program.
Served as Student Body President, leading a 21-student Cabinet to run programs and recommend policies for Academy improvement.
Led development of educational initiatives in entrepreneurship, computer science, and leadership education for more than 350 students combined.
Member of Camras Scholars program, which accepts less than 1% of IIT students to lead projects for campus improvement and local community service.
Freshman Executive Board member, collaborating with IIT administrative departments to funnel student scholars to programs where they can lend their experience and time.
Led a 21-student Cabinet as Student Body President to create programs and recommend policies to improve student life and academics at the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy.
Built partnerships with faculty and staff and implemented new management structures, communication methods, and training programs to boost efficiency of project work.
Launched two major student initiatives for the enhancement of campus mental health and computer science education.
Developed four game-oriented activities and packaged curriculum to expose 350+ high students to entrepreneurship and innovation.
Presented at three conferences for 250+ school administrators and teachers and led a workshop at 1871 start-up incubator for 20 Chicagoland teachers on experiential learning strategies for entrepreneurship.
Helped managed the annual Power Pitch competition, challenging 90+ students to build their own products and services and compete for $6,000 in prizes.
Developed packaged curriculum about leadership, team dynamics, social movement theory, and state and national-level policy reform.
Facilitated 20+ high school sophomores in leadership topics and the creation of a bill proposed to the Illinois legislature.
Researched returns on participation in 30+ middle school speech and debate programs around the country and designed promotional materials for expansion.
Led a five-person team to propose a Research and Development wing of the National Speech and Debate Association and developed a sample study to assess student growth through participation.
Designed four types of classroom activities and assessments for a report section dedicated to training students in teamwork skills and making programming classrooms more collaborative.
Collaborated with history faculty to design and lead the first student-run academic pilot program at the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy to experiment with student voting on course content. The study found statistically significant increases in student interest.
Led 10-person team to develop the 2013 Northern Illinois Leadership Conference: a series of workshops, guides, and packaged curriculum to empower middle school students in public speaking, leadership, and academics.
Hosted with OMNI Youth Services for 70+ students as a Boy Scouts of America Eagle Scout service project.